for the first time an unmanned drone
will be delivering packages to residents
of a remote European island it's the
only time any government has allowed
commercial drone use and it's not headed
by Google or Amazon but DHL Deutsche
Post AG better known in the US as DHL is
Europe's largest parcel service there
taxi yellow quadcopters have been tasked
with taking medicine too juiced an
island in the North Sea only accessible
by boat or plane CEO Juergen gare de
says our DHL parcel copter 2 point 0 is
already one of the safest and most
reliable flight systems in its class
that safety will be put to the test as
the drone flies around seven and a half
miles to juste completely automated DHL
explains in a press release the drone
will be for the first time out of the
pilots field of vision and the pilot
will not have to take any action at all
during any phase of the flight DHL
launched its parcel copter in December
of 2013 before any drones got off the
ground the carrier consulted with the
German Ministry of Transport and digital
infrastructure to establish a restricted
flight area to the island once
established tourists an island residents
will be able to order medicine online
and have a deliver to the islands
pharmacy DHL doesn't have any plans to
expand the program for normal parcel
deliveries around that same time in
December American online Giants Amazon
and Google were beginning to test the
same idea Amazon's Jeff Bezos announced
in 60 minutes his online retail giant
would push forward on amazon prime air
with drone deliver packages to your door
in about 30 minutes recently Google has
unveiled its own craft project wing
capable of vertical takeoff and gently
lowering boxes with an onboard winch
each is facing legal roadblocks to
operating the drones in domestic air
space currently google test project wing
in Australia the Federal Aviation
Administration said in 2013 it will not
permit autonomous flights without pilots
in the u.s. until it establishes its own
rules the administration is expected to
rule on commercial drones Wayne under 55
pounds in 2015 either way it seems DHL's
international reach helped it find a
suitable space for its project
Bloomberg's headline is clear DHL beat
its us competitors but it's uncertain of
being first we'll have any advantage in
this market however the Guardian does
point out the advantages DHL's
islandhoppper has over similar projects
in finding the niche and joost the
company
has overcome several of the difficulties
that amazon faces in launching its own
service the copters don't have to
navigate complex urban and suburban
environments nor do they have to deal
with the possibility of vandalism or
theft once they land even so DHL admits
the drone will continue to be perfected
as it delivers the surface will only be
allowed to operate on certain days of
the week and under ideal weather
conditions for newsy I'm Lauren chorus